this will be a quick heatsink removal
guide for the GTX 580 now there's a
reason that I have an empty package for
a screwdriver sitting next to it and
that's that I actually had to run out
and buy a screwdriver in order to get
the heatsink off so I had to get a Torx
number sit on OIT six it's not because
they don't use a number four Torx
apparently so I had to go get a t6 bit
precision screwdriver because the
majority of the screws on the back of
this video card actually do use a torch
which looks like a star if you're not
familiar with it hopefully I can get the
camera to focus on the GPU there so you
can see that so I've gone ahead and
loaded the correct bit into my
screwdriver already so I'll put that
there and then that is how I will remove
all the screws from the back so the you
don't have to remove the screws on the
shroud like here you only have to remove
all the little screws on the back
including the Phillips head ones here
and that is how we will remove it so
bear with me a moment so if you just
want to replace the stock thermal
compound with something else this is
about as far as you go so you can see
here the GF 110 GPU is right there and
then that's its corresponding cooling
plate on the other side so I actually
want to take the cooler apart which
means I'm gonna have to delve in a
little bit further so I'm gonna have to
start undoing some of these other screws
in here because I want to have a look at
the vapor chamber cooler that is
responsible for keeping the GTX 580 so
cool now at idle as well as under load
now something to be aware of is if you
are replacing your stock thermal
compound I guess that we could call this
like a thermal compound removal guide -
so you know two birds with one stone you
should use like something lint-free to
wipe all of the thermal compound off of
both surfaces use some 99% isopropyl or
rubbing alcohol to remove everything put
on your new thermal compound bearing in
mind you should apply quite a bit more
to a GPU than you would to a CPU because
it's a very large area it's got a big
heat spreader on it you want to make
sure it's covered and then you'd put it
back
now do not replace the pads on the RAM
or any of the vrm because they are not
thin they are not intended so you can
know you're not really gonna be able to
see that are you you can kind of see
they actually have some some depth to
them the reason for that is there are
manufacturing tolerances when there are
fixing all of these components to the
PCB so they're not always going to be at
exactly the same height you need a
little little bit of variance in terms
of where they make contact so that is
why they do use a thicker pad for those
parts so completely disassembling the
cooler from that point was actually the
simplest step all I had to do was remove
how many other seven screws so there's
one on the corner here one here one here
one here and then there's three more on
the bottom of the this is the plastic
shroud that goes over top and it's
actually hard to tell when you're
looking at the plastic shroud over the
metal base that they're made of
different materials because the the
finish on them is so close and videos
done a terrific job of making the card
aesthetically appealing but this is
actually a metal heat spreader here on
the base and the metal heat spreader is
what's responsible for doing the cooling
of the RAM as well as the vrm so you can
see it's gonna get a fair bit of
incidental airflow from the fan itself
which you can clearly see here all right
and so yeah that does all of that now
the vapor chamber this is where the
magic happens
now with the GTX 580 I don't know if
you'll but you know what let me go get
my 580 and then so there's my 484
contrast you can kind of see inside
where it's got a similar Finneran and
then it's got these five massive heat
pipes that are carrying heat away from
where the GPU is located right there to
the aluminum sins so the vapor chamber
is actually a fairly similar technology
to a heat pipe in that you're basically
using a gaseous liquidy substance inside
sometimes it's water sometimes it's
something else and you've got it at a
very very low pressure in there which
allows it to basically boil at with
very little heat input and then it will
evaporate away and then it'll find a
cooler part of the vapor chamber or in
this case a heat pipe so it'll go away
from the hot GPU
come up to the cooler aluminum fins
which are being fooled by the fan then
it'll turn back into a liquid and it'll
be whipped away by the inside of the
heat pipe back down to the GPU so the
vapor chamber works similarly except
that it's kind of like a big huge flat
fin heat pipe so it takes all the heat
from the GPU right here and disperses it
very evenly over this big surface area
so then Nvidia throws some aluminum fins
on there and boom you've got a very
potent cooler now vapor chambers are at
this time more expensive than
implementing heat pipes but it is from
what we can see a more elegant solution
overall so there is the vapor chamber
design so I'm gonna throw this guy back
together and thank you for checking out
my video on the disassembly and I guess
a thermal compound replacement on the
GTX 580